>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we are going
to take a stab at Depth First Search.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: First things first,
we want to understand how our
graph data structure works.
So in our constructor,
when we instantiate our graph,
we instantiated adjacency list,
which is just an empty object.
And when we wanna add a node,
we need to make sure that,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This is interesting.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't want that.
Okay, there we go.
We add a node.
We just set that node
here to an empty array.
So this is something to note
that if our node is an object,
and we're saving it here,
this is gonna be stringified.
So if this is an object,
you want to make sure that this is a map.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, awesome.
All right, so
let's check out our Depth First.
So for Depth First, you just choose
any starting node really, but
we can pass it in.
And let's start with, we can start with 1.
So let's pass in our starting node and
our function will be this console.log.
We're gonna instantiate our stack and
we're also gonna instantiate
our list of visited nodes.
So first, we wanna push to the stack.
So the stack keeps track of
nodes that have been visited,
but not what we call explored.
So explored is when we have gone
through all of the children,
and we're just done with it.
We don't need to look at it anymore.
So that's the difference.
So the nodeStack will say
this has been visited, but
we aren't sure that we've explored it yet,
okay?
So we always are gonna put our node there,
and so we will have,
let me just make this the same.
Where we have our nodeStack.
So we're going to start with 1, and
our nodeStack here is gonna be 1.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
we'll have to save it here as visited, so
we say, we'll just add 1 there, okay?
This is an object, but this is just,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know,
just a node, it's not code.
So while the nodeStack.length.
So while we have nodes that aren't,
we have unexplored nodes,
let's keep exploring, right?
Once this is gone,
that means we have explored all
of the nodes in our graph, okay?
So while nodeStack.length, let's get
our current node and all its neighbors.
Let's do some work on the current node.
In this case, we're just gonna
cancel that log, whatever that is.
And then for
each of the neighbors we want to,
if it's not visited,
add it to our stack and
then mark it as true.
So let's take a look at that.
So what is our current node?
1, so we pop it off.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then we're gonna
console log it for each neighbor, right?
So our neighbors are 2 and 5.
We are going to, only if it's not visited.
So first we check here, right?
So is 2 visited, no.
So it's not visited, so
let's push it to the stack.
And then we'll push
the neighbor to the stack.
And also we are gonna be
marking them as visited.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Very good and
then we’re going to keep going.
So we’re gonna pop that off.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The stack which is 3.
So let's see.
So, so far we logged 1.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're gonna get
our neighbors which is 2 and 4, okay?
And then we're gonna log our current,
which is 3.
For all of our neighbors, if they're
not visited, let's check it out.
So is 2 visited, yes.
So we move on to 4.
Is 4 visited?
No so we're gonna mark it,
we're gonna add it to the stack, and
we will mark it as visited.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And we'll go again.
So we'll pop it off.
So we'll go to 4.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here.
We got all the neighbors,
here are the neighbors.
For each one, we are going to, if they're
not visited, put them on the stack.
So 2, 2 is visited, is 5 visited?
No so we'll put it on stack,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
we're going to mark it as visited.
Great, da, da, da, where are we?
Okay, and
then we're going to go back up here.
Get the 5, here.
We're popping that off the stack.
We're going to get all the 5's neighbors.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: 4,
is 4 been visited yes,
has 1 been visited yes,
has 2 been visited yes, okay.
So we pop.
We just move on with our lives,
we're going to go to 4 again.
Has 2 been visited?
Yes.
Has 5 been visited?
Has 3 been visited?
Yes.
So we had popped that off,
and now we're back at 2.
And let's see, have we visited, I think
we have visited everything, awesome.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this is an
iterative approach to Depth First Search.
So in the recursive approach,
you don't need to make an explicit stack,
because your recursion is the stack.
But I like this because it's more obvious,
and
if recursion is making your head hurt,
maybe iterative is a nice break from that.
Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm?
>> Speaker 2: Are there
advantages to iterative or
recursive approaches when it
comes to time complexity?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's see,
no, not really.
So recursion takes up more space and
memory, but
it doesn't really matter that much for
what we use it for.
And also recursion's not optimized,
completely.
In some languages,
recursion is really optimized.
In JavaScript,
it's not super optimized, so
it's probably better to
do iterative in general.
But recursion, it's just fancier.
But again, if you are just
dealing with small numbers and
not doing data sciency type things,
then it doesn't really matter.